# Utopoi

- [[go]] http://lorand.earth/utopoi/about/
- Utopoi is a space for [[applied utopia]] and [[constructive imagination]].
- Utopoi has a [[personality]]. 
- Excerpt follows, authored by [[solomon-naim]].

The following would be ways to interact with Utopoi:

## Oasis for energetic regeneration

The most basic function of the space for applied utopia is to be a place where one can go to simply "be" in a relaxing, gentle way. This might mean resting, meditating, conversing, day-dreaming, reading, being lazy, thinking, feeling. The role of the space is to radiate a harmonious, quiet energy, and serve as an oasis, away from the pressures and signals of society. An oasis in the geographic sense, and also one in terms of tempo, wave-lengths, states, and paradigms.

## Cultural events

Utopoi hosts events which explore formats for culture with an emphasis on embodied experiencing, living-room vibes, knowledge-sharing, and transdisciplinary dialogue. This means such things as: listening sessions, reading raves, meditation, living-room lectures, ambient installations, performances, etc.

## Group projects and workshops

Utopoi hosts participatory activities in the form of workshops and group projects. We believe that spaces influence the interactions that happen within them; we aim to create space for ways of working together that are utopically constructive, gently playful, aware, and explorative.

## Node for utopic resources

Within the physical space there will be a small library, and online a digital garden. And perhaps other resources as well. 


[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[go]: go "Go"
[solomon-naim]: solomon-naim "Solomon Naim"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"