# Getting Things Done

- [[GTD]] for short. A [[productivity]] method by [[David Allen]].
- It's also a book, which I haven't read; [[Luciana]] has.
- [[go]] https://hamberg.no/gtd
- The gist of it:
  - Break down tasks. Be specific.
  - When go through your backlog, like any inbox (including a "main" one, your base field of operations for executing the GTD algorithms), you try to either take any needed action immediately (but only if it's short; perhaps set a threshold in seconds, rather than minutes) or classify for later doing.
  - My take: as I can, I try to expand items, breaking them down into simpler actions and tagging them (classifying them) with a greater degree of specificity. This makes the tasks more tractable over time.
  - You classify according to [[time]] and [[context]] for the task of doing. Some example tags:
    - [[next action]], [[next week]], [[some day]], [[office]], [[home]], [[project]].
  - [[next action]] is where a lot of the magic happens. At some point something needs to be your [[next action]] to get done :)
- I'm trying using [[Getting Things Done]] in the [[Agora]]:
  - Actions are wikilinks (I don't distinguish between links and tags; they're all just nodes).
  - [[read]], [[research]], [[write]].
  - [[next action]].
  - [[dome day]].
  - [[agora plan]].
  - [[do]] acts as an index/root node of the GTD system; whenever I don't know what to do, I just visit [[do]] :)



[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[gtd]: gtd "GTD"
[david-allen]: david-allen "David Allen"
[luciana]: luciana "Luciana"
[go]: go "Go"
[time]: time "Time"
[context]: context "Context"
[getting-things-done]: getting-things-done "Getting Things Done"
[agora]: agora "Agora"
[read]: read "Read"
[agora-plan]: agora-plan "Agora Plan"
[do]: do "Do"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"