# Jeff Tang

- Q: What do you need?
  - Let's talk more! 
- Q: would publishing Athens to web be useful? Agora
  - wikilinks with brackets, broadcast to all digital gardens participating
- Q: How does [[Athens]] fit in the wider ecosystem?
  - A: unfortunately not lots of collaboration.
  - A: some chats with [[Foam]] and [[logseq]]. logseq have the most in common; they use clojurescript/datascript.
  - A: it's probably too hard to merge projects or come up with a shared vision.
  - A: coordination cost is high. Expected value is not very high in the immediate. We are all trying to be successful, then 
- A coordination problem
  - Civilization suffers from it. We need to believe that it can be solved, but it's unclear how to go about it.
  - Most recent examples of successful standards come from crypto. In the crypto space you have open protocols, a few companies work exclusively on exchanges and interop.
- W3C standard: would you be happy if that happened?
  - Jeff: Yes! But does everyone want that? Coordination again.
  - [[logseq]] started one month before [[Athens]]; similar number of contributors. Wanted to partner with them, we had an agreement. First a standard, then perhaps even merging; we had similar visions, were using similar technologies.
  - Coordinating was considered too difficult in the end at this stage.
- Hub-like standard? Periphery. Hypothesis: multiplayer is key. Hub provides multiplayer, a social graph.
  - Beautiful but very idealistic.
  - A: I'm also very pragmatic though.
- Social knowledge graphs
- Look up: [[Nate Liason]] -- "effortless output in Roam". More for beginners. 
  - He has published his brain: https://www.nateliason.com/brain

## TODO
 - Read about [[Nate Liason]]
 - Check out [[logseq]]
 - Work on [[agora-protocol]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[athens]: athens "Athens"
[foam]: foam "Foam"
[logseq]: logseq "Logseq"
[agora-protocol]: agora-protocol "Agora Protocol"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"