# Normanchella

- A [[person]] on [[twitter]].
 - norman: international studies -> japanese -> fintech -> [[podcasts]] and [[polymathic studies]].

## Chat: 2020-11-06

- [[dream project]] is a [[polymath club]]: https://twitter.com/NormanChella/status/1319216375240404997
  - cares about [[polymathy studies]] more than about the credentials of being a polymath. there is no end goal; it is an activity, a work in progress.
  - current society forces you to stay in a track of specialization.
  - "polymaths in progress": a manifesto for this attitude.
  - polymaths helping each other with an overlapping 
  - topic: amateurism, can it sometimes be disrepect towards a discipline?
- [[polymathy]] is a [[state of being]]. In that state, there is only a state of connection.
- [[expert]] == a [[miner]]
- [[polymath]] == [[depth]] + [[breadth]] + [[integration]]. A polymath pursues a mission: there are no disciplines, there are other connections. This is a spectrum, though.
- topics:
  - dilettantes/generalists
- social networks are user content plus an algorithm
- twitter: more than one network. many.
- norman: "when I go into twitter, I want to be <blank>". I have an intention.
- but then I might get triggered by something. the algorithm seems to work 70% well, sometimes I also do not respect my own intentions. 
- topics:
  - increasing polarization -> algorithms




[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[person]: person "Person"
[twitter]: twitter "Twitter"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"