# 2020-10-15
 - VC with [[Jeff Tang]]. It was great!
   - Told me about [[Nate Liason]]
   - See todos in his note proper above (this is where block references would come in handy).
 - [[S.]] came over and we had concurrent mate (different gourds) with social distancing.
   - Gifted me [[The 99% Invisible City]]
 - Got [[Words of My Perfect Teacher]] and [[Four Quartets]] in the mail.
 - [[LJ]] unbanned me and pointed me to their actually pretty great and reasonable bot policy: https://www.livejournal.com/bots/
 - Great thread with luminaries from "knowledge graph Twitter" (!): https://twitter.com/metasj/status/1316730679330254848, including [[dan-whaley]].
 - TIL: [[Vickrey auction]]
 - Still fighting with Foam rendering to anagora.org, but perhaps tomorrow is the day where I decide to hack together a Markdown links fixer and get out of the woods?
    - Tried out [[scottjoe]]'s solution for indexing multiple repos.
        - [[scottjoe]] in [[foam]] [[discord]]: @Flancian interesting. As long as they're accessible to you and your credentials in your local environment, it'd clone them all into the bottles directory with whatever they come with. I've made mine in a way that they're all sort of...content plugins/sources for my overall workspace. As long as Foam doesn't conflict in some way with the workspace mgmt found in each of those tools (assuming you're wanting to keep them as working [obsidian|athens|roam] workspaces s well)
 - [[dyokomizo]] pointed out [[Global Decision-Making via Local Economic Transactions]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[Jeff Tang]: ../jeff-tang "Jeff Tang"
[dan-whaley]: ../dan-whaley "Dan Whaley"
[Vickrey auction]: ../vickrey-auction "Vickrey Auction"
[scottjoe]: ../scottjoe "Scottjoe"
[foam]: ../foam "Foam"
[discord]: ../discord "Discord"
[dyokomizo]: ../dyokomizo "Dyokomizo"
[Global Decision-Making via Local Economic Transactions]: ../global-decision-making-via-local-economic-transactions "Global Decision Making via Local Economic Transactions"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"