# 2020-11-04

- Election recount day in the US. It looks like it'll be a mess. I tweeted a meme about this then realized it was probably not Right Speech (thanks to [[aeyokay]]) so I deleted it.
- Yesterday I had an interesting conversation about the [[agora]] with [[D. C.]]
- Met [[trailhub1]]. They pointed out something interesting about the term '[[agora]]': https://twitter.com/TrailHub1/status/1323921488358068224
- [[mwiik]] is using Twitter web intents that let you post with GET to a URL to advance his [[tweetbond]] idea: https://twitter.com/mwiik/status/1323787415698505728.
- [[codexeditor]] and [[reddy2go]] reviewed this [[agora]]! I am thankful.
- Will be off Twitter until 19 to focus on the day job more thoroughly; I have a backlog I'd like to clear.
- Did:
  - Added /today to redirect to the right daily page.
- Next:
  - Integrate [[s5bug]]'s garden.
  - Add user handler: /u
    - /u/flancian -> all nodes by flancian
    - /node/flancia/u/flancian -> flancia by flancian
    - perhaps /g/ for groups later? or /s/ for stoa.
  - Add 'dark mode' to the Agora, I like this kind of scheme: https://twitter.com/ablueaeshna/status/1323439284272222208/photo/1
  - Implement search (full text).
  - Move uwsgi/prod serving off my user into 'agora'.
  - Add monitoring/alerting.
  - Make the index be just another note [[ding-levery]].
  - Clean up stale journal pages which don't follow [[iso 8601]].
- [[offline twitter]]:
  - "[[41666]]", a [[short story]] in which whoever just cracked [[Dread Pirate Robert]]'s wallet and got $1bn out of it sets up a system that gives 41666 individuals around the world a basic income of $500/mo for four years.

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[aeyokay]: ../aeyokay "Aeyokay"
[agora]: ../agora "Agora"
[trailhub1]: ../trailhub1 "Trailhub1"
[mwiik]: ../mwiik "Mwiik"
[codexeditor]: ../codexeditor "Codexeditor"
[s5bug]: ../s5bug "S5bug"
[ding-levery]: ../ding-levery "Ding Levery"
[iso 8601]: ../iso-8601 "Iso 8601"
[offline twitter]: ../offline-twitter "Offline Twitter"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"