# 2020-11-01

- Finished listening to [[Minecraft, but it's Everywhere At The End Of Time]].
  It's made me worry about the effects of dementia and Alzheimer's, whether I
  could contract them, and how much of an effect they would have on me. I'm
  worried about not remembering having created this garden.
- Implemented `get` and partially implemented `put` on a `HashTableChain`. A
  `HashTableChain` is made up of an array of linked lists, where the array
  index corresponds to some modulo of the hashcode of the key.
- Played [[Bed Wars]] on [[Hypixel]] in [[Minecraft]] with [[aveao]],
  [[linuxgemini]], and [[lnmds]]. We won with little to no communication;
  amazing team synergy. We plan to play again at some point but with voice
  chat or some other form of unobtrusive communication.
- Ran out of milk and Half and Half. Tried to make Mac and Cheese with watered
  down whipping cream. Tasted awful.
- Thinking about registering "degreetech" or "°tech" as some sort of trademark.
  I don't know the official word for it, but I want to publish [[sledge]] under
  [[degreetech]] instead of as a personal project. It might be easier to get
  funding or members that way.
  - [[degreetech]]'s original purpose was to develop software and tooling meant to
    be international. Tooling in a very general sense: I've wanted to create a
    conlang that removes the distinction between morphemes and phonemes and
    publish it under [[degreetech]].
  - The only project under [[degreetech]] as of current is an abandoned chat
    protocol. Said protocol was meant to fix the problems of Matrix and XMPP
    but ended up having some pretty significant flaws so it's been left to
    collect dust. I still think that there's a space for federated chat left
    to be filled.
- Partially finished my `HashTableChain`. I had a bug where every bucket in the
  table was pointing to the same chain, so when I added an element it added it
  to every bucket. This is because [[Java]]'s `Arrays.fill` only evaluates the
  element once.
- Played [[Bed Wars]] again, but with [[SamSeawell]] and [[Sirius902]]. We had
  voice chat at our advantage. We did not lose a single game out of the few we
  played.

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[Minecraft, but it's Everywhere At The End Of Time]: ..\minecraft-but-its-everywhere-at-the-end-of-time "Minecraft, but it's Everywhere At The End Of Time"
[Bed Wars]: ..\bedwars "Bed Wars"
[Hypixel]: ..\hypixel "Hypixel"
[Minecraft]: ..\minecraft "Minecraft"
[aveao]: ..\aveao "Aveao"
[linuxgemini]: ..\linuxgemini "Linuxgemini"
[lnmds]: ..\lnmds "Lnmds"
[sledge]: ..\sledge "sledge"
[degreetech]: ..\degreetech "degreetech"
[Java]: ..\java "Java"
[SamSeawell]: ..\samseawell "SamSeawell"
[Sirius902]: ..\sirius902 "Sirius902"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
