# 2020-10-31

- Set up this journal. See the [[readme]].
- Looked into writing a [[Ghidra]] plugin to generate [[MASM Assembly]] for a
  [[decompilation]] project. It seems the process is complicated, by the "Hello
  World" example given.
- Explored whether or not it's possible to write recursive algorithms in
  constant space using [[fs2]], and how it applies to [[sledge]].
  - It was discussed in the Scala Discord whether or not there exists an
    algorithm to generate moves for the Dragon Fractal in constant space. The
    current theory is that there can't be an algorithm that uses less than
    linear space.
- Talked with my family about my plans for university. I've decided that if I'm
  unable to complete an Associate's Degree by the end of Summer 2021, then I'll
  reduce my workload and enter university in Fall 2022 instead of Fall 2021.
- Discussed how safe and unsafe [[Zig]] is with [[MinusKelvin]]. The conclusion
  was that [[Zig]]'s level of safety is perfect for a replacement for C, but
  [[Rust]] gives better overall safety.
- Explored the practicality of a `Real`/Computable number type for use in place
  of [[Zig]]'s `comptime_float`. The consensus was that, if accurate, it would
  be very useful for expanding [[Zig]]'s floating point datatypes outside of
  just `f16`, `f32`, `f64`, and `f128`.
- Discovered [[Minecraft, but it's Everywhere At The End Of Time]]. I've
  figured out that this is some sort of reference to "[[The Caretaker]]," but I
  don't know what "[[The Caretaker]]" is. I'll have to do more research on it
  tomorrow.

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[readme]: ..\README "Aly's digital garden"
[Ghidra]: ..\ghidra "Ghidra"
[MASM Assembly]: ..\masm-assembly "MASM Assembly"
[decompilation]: ..\decompilation "Decompilation"
[fs2]: ..\fs2 "fs2"
[sledge]: ..\sledge "sledge"
[Zig]: ..\zig "Zig"
[MinusKelvin]: ..\minuskelvin "MinusKelvin"
[Rust]: ..\rust "Rust"
[Minecraft, but it's Everywhere At The End Of Time]: ..\minecraft-but-its-everywhere-at-the-end-of-time "Minecraft, but it's Everywhere At The End Of Time"
[The Caretaker]: ..\the-caretaker "The Caretaker"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
