# 2020-11-16

- Got into [[flow]] today. It felt productive.
- Discussed [[agora-go-links-integration]] with [[ethan-plante]] on [[discord]].
- Discussed [[open source]] with [[steven-fan]].
- Discussed [[interplanetary mind map]] with [[armengolaltayo]].
- Ordered coffee from [[utopia coffee]].
- Caught up with [[abstractfairy]].
  - Introduced me to [[mike elias]] == [[harmonylion1]].
- [[music]] Listened to [[utopoi]] (playlist).
- Worked on items from [[agora plan]]:
  - Implemented some degree of [[agora fuzzy matching]]
  - Cleaned up badly formatted journal entries from Roam days.
  - Implemented full text search.
  - Made node/subnode distinction clearer.
  - Moved to a div based layout.
  - Improved (or tried to improve) dark mode (which is the default).
- Random thoughts (could be [[offline twitter]]):
  - I just realized the [[agora]] could become a lot like [[flanbook]] through projects like [[agora twitter integration]].
  - https://hackersandslackers.com/flask-wtforms-forms/ " know this: handling form authentication and data submission is the pinnacle of app development. This is where frontend meets backend: a dance of data where a person's keystrokes result in meaningful action. He who creates forms is a harbinger of a golden age: a hero who brings us to the pinnacle of Western technology." ha.
- Tested [[roam2agora]]. See [[2020-11-17]].

## Planned
- Get back to [[paleoludic]] (email).
- Get back to [[jerry-michalski]], evaluate [[ogm]].
- Update [[roam likes]].
- Write about [[governance]] in [[Flancia]].
- Find a way to node to the [[agora]] from mobile. Actually probably add it to the plan first.
- Write about [[stoa]]s.

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[flow]: ../flow "Flow"
[agora-go-links-integration]: ../agora-go-links-integration "Agora Go Links Integration"
[ethan-plante]: ../ethan-plante "Ethan Plante"
[discord]: ../discord "Discord"
[steven-fan]: ../steven-fan "Steven Fan"
[armengolaltayo]: ../armengolaltayo "Armengolaltayo"
[abstractfairy]: ../abstractfairy "AbstractFairy"
[harmonylion1]: ../harmonylion1 "Harmonylion1"
[utopoi]: ../utopoi "Utopoi"
[agora]: ../agora "Agora"
[flanbook]: ../flanbook "Flanbook"
[roam2agora]: ../roam2agora "Roam2agora"
[2020-11-17]: 2020-11-17 "2020-11-17"
[paleoludic]: ../paleoludic "Paleoludic"
[jerry-michalski]: ../jerry-michalski "Jerry Michalski"
[governance]: ../governance "Governance"
[stoa]: ../stoa "Stoa"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"