# 2020-10-17

 - The [[Agora]] in a nutshell:
    - It is a [[convention based social network]]; a layer over the existent internet.
    - It runs wherever there is used generated content. It is user-controlled, even in corp-controlled platforms.
    - Wherever users can write text, they can [[annotate]] as per an established convention.
    - [[wikilinks]] are ubiquituous [[tags]]. Browser extensions can easily auto-link them to whenever the user wants to; for example, to a hub repository of them (https://flancia.org/go/agora-protocol is my current proposal, but that's just a detail; the most useful convention should win).
    - Images (like those you can attach in, say, [[twitter]] or [[mastodon]]) can encode information; think of attaching QR codes to every tweet using a custom client). Or just screenshots, optionally post-processed (OCR'd) or making use of [[stenographic techniques]].
    - The Agora includes designated hubs where all annotations can be consolidated into a [[distributed knowledge graph]].
    - Special applications might be possible. Note that the Agora might presumably break open [[walled gardens]].
- [[burning temple]]: https://twitter.com/harveykrishna_/status/1306294024790331394 [[kinkaku-ji]]
- Discussed possible projects in [[zulip]].
- [[jonathan-the-utopian]] works in [[category theory]]! exchanged voice messages.


[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[Agora]: ../agora "Agora"
[twitter]: ../twitter "Twitter"
[mastodon]: ../mastodon "Mastodon"
[distributed knowledge graph]: ../distributed-knowledge-graph "Distributed Knowledge Graph"
[zulip]: ../zulip "Zulip"
[jonathan-the-utopian]: ../jonathan-the-utopian "Jonathan the Utopian"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"